# OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING(OOP)

## Python Classes/Objects

- Python is an object oriented programming language.Almost everything in Python is an object, with its properties and methods.
- A Class is like an object constructor, or a "blueprint" for creating objects.

### Create a Class
To create a class, use the keyword class:

```PYTHON
class MyClass:
  x = 5
```
```PYTHON
print(MyClass)
```


### Create Object
Now we can use the class named MyClass to create objects:
```python
class MyClass:
  x = 5
p1 = MyClass()
```
```python
print(p1.x)
```

### The __init__() Function
The examples above are classes and objects in their simplest form, and are not really useful in real life applications.
- To understand the meaning of classes we have to understand the built-in __init__() function.
- All classes have a function called __init__(), which is always executed when the class is being initiated.
- Use the __init__() function to assign values to object properties, or other operations that are necessary to do when the object is being created:
- The __init__() function is called automatically every time the class is being used to create a new object.
### Example
Create a class named Person, use the __init__() function to assign values for name and age:
```pyhton
class Person:
  def __init__(self, name, age):
    self.name = name
    self.age = age

p1 = Person("John", 36)

print(p1.name)
print(p1.age)
```


## Object Methods
Objects can also contain methods. Methods in objects are functions that belong to the object.

### Example
Insert a function that prints a greeting, and execute it on the p1 object:
```pyhton
class Person:
  def __init__(self, name, age):
    self.name = name
    self.age = age

  def myfunc(self):
    print("Hello my name is " + self.name)

p1 = Person("John", 36)
p1.myfunc()
```


### Self Parameter
The self parameter is a reference to the current instance of the class, and is used to access variables that belongs to the class.It does not have to be named self , you can call it whatever you like, but it has to be the first parameter of any function in the class:

### Example
Use the words mysillyobject and abc instead of self:
```python
class Person:
  def __init__(mysillyobject, name, age):
    mysillyobject.name = name
    mysillyobject.age = age

  def myfunc(abc):
    print("Hello my name is " + abc.name)

p1 = Person("John", 36)
p1.myfunc()
```

## Modify ,Delete  Properties and Objects
- You can modify properties on objects like this:
- You can delete properties on objects by using the del keyword:
- You can delete objects by using the del keyword:


## Pass Statement
- class definitions cannot be empty, but if you for some reason have a class definition with no content, put in the pass statement to avoid getting an error.

### Example
```python
class Person:
  pass
```  
  
 ##  Principles of OOP: 
- Encapsulation
- Inheritance 
- Polymorphism


## Inheritance
- Inheritance is the capability of one class to derive or inherit the properties from another class.The class that derives properties is called the derived class or child class and the class from which the properties are being derived is called the base class or parent class.It provides the reusability of a code. We don’t have to write the same code again and again. Also, it allows us to add more features to a class without modifying it.

- Single-level inheritance enables a derived class to inherit characteristics from a single-parent class.
- Multi-level inheritance enables a derived class to inherit properties from an immediate parent class which in turn inherits properties from his parent class.
- Hierarchical level inheritance enables more than one derived class to inherit properties from a parent class.
- Multiple level inheritance enables one derived class to inherit properties from more than one base class.
  
  

### Example
Create a class named Person, with firstname and lastname properties, and a printname method:
```python
class Person:
  def __init__(self, fname, lname):
    self.firstname = fname
    self.lastname = lname

  def printname(self):
    print(self.firstname, self.lastname)

#Use the Person class to create an object, and then execute the printname method:

x = Person("John", "Doe")
x.printname()

```


### Create a Child Class
To create a class that inherits the functionality from another class, send the parent class as a parameter when creating the child class:

Example
Create a class named Student, which will inherit the properties and methods from the Person class:
```pyhton
class Student(Person):
  pass
  
  Example
Use the Student class to create an object, and then execute the printname method:

  
  class Person:
  def __init__(self, fname, lname):
    self.firstname = fname
    self.lastname = lname

  def printname(self):
    print(self.firstname, self.lastname)

class Student(Person):
  pass

x = Student("Mike", "Olsen")
x.printname()
```



## Encapsulation
Hiding the inner details of class or certain data and we only need to expose what is neeeded for user of class to use that class Methods to get access of data getter setter Specific way to do Encapsulation in python is Property We can add in the property and nothing is changed.
- Encapsulation is one of the fundamental concepts in object-oriented programming (OOP).
- It describes the idea of wrapping data and the methods that work on data within one unit.
- This puts restrictions on accessing variables and methods directly and can prevent the accidental modification of data.
- To prevent accidental change, an object’s variable can only be changed by an object’s method.
- Those types of variables are known as private variables.
- It through error because we cannot even access this attribute directly and can’t even change its value.
- To resolve this issue, we use getters & setters to add validation logic around getting and setting a value
- Using @property decorators to achieve getters and setters behaviour.
- 
### class Base:
```python
 def __init__(self):
        self.a="Python"
        self.__c="Python"
class Derived(Base):
    def __init__(self):
        Base.__init__(self)
        print("Calling private member of base class:")
        print(self.__c)
obj1=Base()
print(obj1.a)
obj2=Derived()
print(obj2)
```

## Polymorphism
Polymorphism simply means having many forms.It means that the same function name (but different signatures) being used for different types.

```python
class Bird:
    def intro(self):
        print("There are many types of birds.")
    def flight(self):
        print("Most of the birds can fly but some cannot.")
class sparrow(Bird):
    def flight(self):
        print("sparrow can fly")
class ostrich(Bird):
    def flight(self):
        print("Ostriches cannot fly.")
obj_bird = Bird()
obj_spr = sparrow()
obj_ost = ostrich()
obj_bird.intro()
obj_bird.flight()
obj_spr.intro()
obj_spr.flight()
obj_ost.intro()
obj_ost.flight()
```


## Abstraction
It hides the unnecessary code details from the user.Also, when we do not want to give out sensitive parts of our code implementation and this is where data abstraction came.Data Abstraction in Python can be achieved through creating abstract classes.Python comes with a module that provides the base for defining Abstract Base classes(ABC) and that module name is ABC.

```python
from abc import ABC,abstractmethod
class Car(ABC):
    @abstractmethod
    def mileage(self):
        pass
class Tesla(Car):
    def mileage(self):
        print("The mileage is 30kmph")
class Duster(Car):
    def mileage(self):
        print("The mileage is 24kmph ")
t= Tesla()
t.mileage()
d = Duster()
d.mileage()
```



##Difference between Parameters and Arguments
Parameters are variables attached to the method we are creating e.g name, membership are parameters while Argumets are values assigned to the parameters e.g Customer("Caleb","Gold") ,here Caleb and Gold are arguments assigned to membership
